(Cicadas chirping)
(Swing creaking)
Uhh...
(Fast footsteps)
Ngh!
[TAKEO](Grunting)
That's not how you swing!
UGH!
That's how you do it!
Yeah, I'm not so
sure about that.
(Suna laughs)
Huh?
(Laughing)
Uhh...
(Ringing)
(Groaning)
Whoa. Seems like forever ago.
Yeah...
Suna's always been a cool guy.
Even just sittin' on a swing.
[SUNA]
I think I'm
gonna get going.
What? Are you sure?
Mm-hmm.
You know, she's probably
gonna have another batch
of cookies for us.
Nah, I've got
some errands.
Huh? Really?
Yeah. I'll see ya.
[TAKEO]
Errands?
♪Opening song♪
[RINKO]
Oh! Takeo!
Uh? Where's
Sunakawa today?
He said he had
some errands to run.
[RINKO]
I figured you'd both
be here, since, well,
you're always together.
I guess we are,
aren't we?
Yeah!
I suppose that means we'll
just have leftovers, then.
You can give 'em
to him later.
[TAKEO]
Oh, I remember these! They're
the "cake ze kalé," right?
Well, that was pretty
close. They're cake salé.
And look, I made some of
them into star shapes.
(Happy chewing)
Awesome!
They bring back
some good memories.
Om!
Say, Takeo...
Hm?
When is
your birthday?
I was born January 1st.
Really?!
No way!
(Kids cheering)
Even though it's in the
middle of winter break,
my friends would always
drop by to celebrate.
[RINKO]
New Years Day, huh?
Hm?
Okay... I'd better
start planning, then!
New Year calls
for Mochi...
And there are a
lot of mochi-based
desserts out there.
Oh, there's so many
to choose from.
Alright. So when
is your birthday?
Huh?
Oh, uh...
Well my birthday
is June the 15th.
Okay, then. Got it.
It's June the 15th.
(Embarrassed sputtering)
Hm?
Oh... AH!
That's right
around the corner!
Uh yeah. I suppose
it is, isn't it?
I'm sorry, I'm not
trying to make it sound
like a thing, you know?
Yeah, well, it is!
Let's celebrate!
What would you like?
Nothing! I don't
want anything.
Nothing at all!
Huh?
Look, please don't
make it a big deal.
I just...
I just want...
(Shaky breaths)
Would you please just spend
the day with me, Takeo?!
(Harp and organ music)
(Long grunt)
Ahh!
Mmm-hmmm!
Ooh...
Ms. Yamato...
(Giggle)
I am so glad you were
born into this world.
People of all kinds
are born into this world.
(Door opens)
[TAKEO]
Suna!
It is birthday time!
Happy birthday.
Wait, yours is
on January 1st.
[TAKEO]
I can't believe you remembered!
And I remember your
birthday, too, my friend!
You were born
September 13th.
I always remember it...
You invited me to your birthday
party in grade school.
Uh-huh. So, whose
birthday is it?
Ms. Yamato's!
Oh. That's a biggie. When?
It's on June 15th!
Mm!
15th...
Oh...
Huh? You have
something planned?
No. It's
nothing, really.
Are you sure?
What are you gonna
do for her birthday?
You going out?
Hm?
Suna... She said she
didn't want anything.
She told me she just wanted
to spend time with me.
And that that's all
she really wanted.
Oh, okay.
No, it's not!
I want her to do everything
on her birthday!
You would.
You have got to help me!
Okay.
Up high!
Yeah, okay.
[YURIKO, TAKEO'S MOM]
Welcome home, son.
[TAKEO]
People of all kinds
are born into this world.
Take, this coming
January, you're gonna
be a big brother.
Can you press
the button for me?
Mom, how old are you now?
I am 40 years old.
But the doctor says I have
the body of a 22 year-old.
That's healthy I suppose.
Mom! You should not be
carrying this stuff!
Oh, whatever! I'm fine.
No, I'll take it!
I said I'm fine!
(Elevator dings)
When I was giving birth to
you at the hospital...
Another woman went into
labor and I carried her
into the delivery room.
Nothing happened to me then.
Not sure what that means,
but I'm impressed.
Alright... Okay, then...
(DING)
I'm gonna have a new brother...
or a new sister...
(Gleeful grunt)
People of all kinds
are born into this world.
Wha-?! You mean you're going
to be an older brother soon?
That's great!
Congratulations!
Is it a brother
or a sister?
She said she still
doesn't know yet.
So how old is your mother?
She's 40.
That's so cool!
You'll be someone's
big brother...
You are going to
be perfect for this!
Y'know, I bet you'd also
make an awesome dad, too!
Oh yeah? Well, I think
you'd be an awesome mom.
(Both giggling)
Yeah. I'm gonna
get out of here.
Hm? Are you
leaving already?
Mm-hmm... There's something
I gotta check on.
Hm...
You okay, Takeo?
[TAKEO]
It's just... Suna's been
acting a little weird lately.
[RINKO]
Huh?
I dunno...
Maybe I'm just
imagining things.
What is it, Suna?
I can't help if
you don't talk to me.
Oh... Uh,
well, maybe...
Hm?
Maybe he's
a little lonely.
Ah.
'Cause, well, you guys
have always been together.
And, nowadays, the two of you
don't really get to see each
other as much
I mean, Suna adores you.
You know that.
Look, Takeo, it doesn't have
to be just the two of us
on my birthday...
Let's invite Suna
to come, too.
Are you sure?
(Giggle)
Mm-hmm!
Ms. Yamato!
Thank you!
I love her so much!
(Classroom chatter)
[TAKEO]
Suna!
Hm?
Check it out.
You're invited!
To Ms. Yamato's
birthday on the 15th!
What? Why?
It's okay, man!
She said you might
be feeling lonely!
Oh, well...
I'm not lonely.
Sure about that?
I'm sure. And besides, I've got
something to do on the 15th...
Okay. So, he's
NOT lonely.
So what brought
that up, anyway?
Well, you don't seem
to be acting much like
yourself at all lately.
[TAKEO]
So, I'm just wondering
what's going on.
Uh.
I'm, uh, fine.
If he does have
something going on...
it's not my place to try
and force it out of him.
I'll wait until he's
ready to tell me.
Please get
outta my face.
Now, let's talk about this
schedule you put together
for Rinko's bir-
[TAKEO]
Yeah, I know.
Awesome, right?
It looks like the
itinerary for a day in
the life of the President.
What? You think
it's too much?
[SUNA]
First of all, six in the
morning's not gonna work.
Plus, almost everything here
depends on a sunny day.
What'll you do if it rains?
[TAKEO]
Oh, yeah.
Also, this doesn't include
any breaks or travel time.
It's wall to wall.
I mean, I'm exhausted just
looking at this list.
Okay, I get it. Guess I
should start over, then.
[TAKEO]
So, where can you go
even when it's raining?
Here's a thought:
What about the place where
we went awhile back
for that festival
after-party?
They had a bowling
alley and karaoke
and some other stuff
in there, right?
(Gasp)
Yeah! I like it!
I'm gonna go with that!
(Stifled laugh)
Huh?
At the party, you...
(Laughing)
What?
Your fingers wouldn't fit
in the bowling balls...
So, you just grabbed 'em and
threw 'em like softballs.
(Laughing)
I remember something
like that.
The balls just
bounced down the lane.
Then people started
gathering around...
And each time you threw
the ball, the whole
place would go nuts...
You have a really
good memory.
How could I forget
something like that?
Nobody on Earth bowls
at six in the morning.
They open up at ten.
Right then,
ten o'clock, it is!
[TAKEO]
Okay, what to do for lunch...
Beef bowl? Ramen?
You should probably try a
place with lots of desserts.
I mean, you know how she is.
She likes to bake,
so I bet she'd be into that.
Uh, yeah! It's her birthday.
I want her to eat the
best thing she's ever
had in her life.
How about this place?
They take reservations.
And it looks like they
have a whole bunch of
stuff on their menu.
(SNAP)
That's it, Suna!
I'll reserve us a table!
Can you think of anything
else for us to do?
Let's see...
The aquarium, the
planetarium, a movie...
I think that's about it.
Gives you lots of options.
I love the planetarium.
We went there
in elementary school.
(Laughing)
I remember... They were
fixing the floor.
You fell in the hole
and got stuck.
And when you pulled
yourself out...
it looked like you were some
creature crawling out of some
subterranean world...
[TAKEO]
Yeah. You really do have a
memory on you. I'm so glad.
Ah! Anyway!
The planetarium, it is!
She absolutely loves the stars.
This is gonna be perfect!
I can't freakin' wait!
(Humming)
(Chuckle)
You sound excited.
Huh? Yeah!
It's gonna be great!
Celebrating the birthday
of someone I care about
is even better than
my own birthday!
Alright then.
Should be fun.
Heck yeah! Thanks
for helping!
Y'know, these are all
places I've been with you.
Well, it's been like 10 years
since we did any of that.
That's right. We've been
friends for a long time.
Oh, by the way...
What'd ya get her?
WHAH!
Holy crap!
I totally forgot!
It's her birthday!
She's gotta get a present!
Usually how it works.
Got any money?
Ugh!
You can borrow some...
If I use someone else's money,
then it's not from me!
Then I guess you'll
need a job.
Yes, that's it! I will
get myself a job!
(Confident laugh)
Let's see what's out there.
(Snoring and grumbling)
Time to get up!
Huh?
Suna... He looked up
everything for me.
I'm so lucky to
have you for a friend.
And thanks to you,
and all your help,
Ms. Yamato's going to have
the best birthday ever!
(Schoolbell rings)
(Classroom chatter)
I'm going to head out.
I don't suppose
you'll say where.
I just gotta make
a stop somewhere.
Then I'll go home
and crash.
Uh... 'Kay,
I'll see ya!
[TAKEO]
Thanks, man!
Suna!
Hm?
[TAKEO]
Is everything... alright?
What do you mean?
I'm just wondering.
I'm fine. I promise.
O-okay.
He says nothing's wrong.
I have to take
his word for it.
[RINKO]
Well, that's good.
I'm glad to hear that Suna
hasn't been feeling lonely.
It'll be just the two
of us on your birthday.
[RINKO]
Mm-hmm!
(Giggle)
It's just one week away!
I cannot tell you how
exited I am about this.
Yeah, me too.
I'm so happy right now.
Oh man! It's time for
my job interview.
What? Job interview?
Your birthday's
gonna be super great!
What?! But I said I
don't want anything!
I'm honestly happy with the
fact that you're going to be
spending all day with me!
I'm serious! That's
all I really want!
I know you said that!
But I want to do this!
And it is happening!
(Shocked gasp)
(Giggle)
'Kay.
Ms. Yamato...
I'm so glad I met you.
[TAKEO, YELLING]
And so, you know, this is a
short-term thing for me.
[MANAGER]
Well, good people
are hard to come by,
so if it works out,
I'd love to keep you on.
Thanksomuch!
I'll do my best!
That's what
I like to hear!
Suna! Got a job today!
Congratulations.
Doing what?
[TAKEO]
Look!
[SUNA]
You sure that's for you?
Yeah! It's a
pretty small menu.
I shouldn't have any
trouble memorizing it.
No, that's not really
what I meant.
You and Ms. Yamato
should come visit!
Uh. So you told her
that you were getting a job?
(Grumble)
I thought you were going
to keep it a secret.
Oh!
(Vibrating)
[TAKEO]
Hm?
Hmmm?
What's up?
Uh... Nothing...
Uh, it's all good.
Okay.
[TAKEO]
You think you could maybe
help me pick out a present?
Yeah, sure thing.
[SUNA]
I'm thinking...
about some of the
gifts you've picked
out in the past.
What have
I given you?
Bugs one year...
and some rocks.
Hmm...
What do you think
about this one?
Huh?
[TAKEO]
Uh... a bowl?
[SUNA]
The other day, she mentioned
liking a café au lait
bowl just like this.
[RINKO]
Aw, how cute! Look.
It's Perfect for café au lait!
I so need one of these!
Okay then...
So, this is what you call
a café au lait bowl...
[SUNA]
When YOU hold it,
it looks more like a teacup.
[TAKEO]
Suna's so good at paying
attention to people.
and he's always keeping
an eye out for me.
Oh! Suna, what
about that?
I think it would
look great on her.
Everything looks
great on her.
I want to buy this
for Ms. Yamato.
Looks good to me.
I don't want anyone
to buy it before I get
my first paycheck.
I'll see if they can
put it on layaway.
Hm?
She said it was okay.
[SUNA]
Well, I'm gonna
get going now.
[TAKEO]
Yeah! Thanks again, man!
Ms. Yamato, your birthday
is going to be awesome!
(Door opens)
Welcome to Machos!
Well, look at the guns
on this hunk of meat.
He must be new.
Thank you, sir!
(Customers gawking)
Here's your protein tea! Enjoy!
Hey there, sport,
what gym do you go to?
Your delts are incredible!
This job's totally
going to work.
[TAKEO]
I'm home!
Mom, are you okay?!
Take, I'm fine.
I swear, you're just as
paranoid as your father.
But, Mom, c'mon...
[YURIKO]
Don't worry about me.
Oh, I saw your friend Suna
at the hospital.
Hospital?
[YURIKO]
His father's been
having some problems.
What? You didn't know?
(Gasp)
(Grunting)
Yeah... He wouldn't talk
about that, would he?
Uh?
Hey, Takeo. Come on in.
So, where is everyone?
Oh-uh... Mom and my sister
have been on a trip overseas,
so they're out.
And they're in
the mountains, too,
so I'm having trouble
getting through.
You're here all by yourself?
[TAKEO]
How's your dad?
(Grunt)
Did your mom
tell you?
He collapsed the other day...
Went to the hospital.
Oh, God. That's awful.
He's gonna need
to have surgery...
So, I asked my uncle
to be there if he could.
So, when is the surgery?
[SUNA]
It's June 15th.
Ah...
Oh, uh, well...
Well, my birthday
is June the 15th.
All kinds of people are born
into this world.
And eventually...
they're all taken from it.
[SUNA]
Quite a coincidence, huh.
[TAKEO]
Suna, I'll be there
for the surgery.
(Slight gasp)
C'mon. You've got birthday
to go to, remember?
No, Suna! I'm here for you!
I'll talk to Ms. Yamato!
You know she'll understand!
Please don't tell her
about my dad, okay?
If you do that,
she'll just worry.
She will understand!
Listen to me... Okay?
I'm not going mess up
the first birthday
you get to spend with
your girlfriend.
It's important.
I know how much you've been
looking forward to it.
You're not messing anything up!
Just stop!
Uh!
Don't you get it, man?
[SUNA]
Look, even if you were to
cancel your plans with her
and come to the surgery
to be there for me...
It's not going to make
me feel any better.
You gotta understand,
this has been coming...
My dad's been dealing
with this a long time.
I'm prepared.
For the worst.
[TAKEO]
Suna's father... has always
been so nice to me.
[YURIKO]
They're not allowing
any visitors.
He's always had
these heart problems.
It must've started when you
were in elementary school...
Remember that time he fainted?
I heard it was a pretty
close call back then.
(Sigh)
Mom, you knew about this, so
why didn't you ever tell me
You don't have to
treat me like a kid.
I've known Suna for
over ten years now.
But there's still so much
I don't know about him...
I know his birthday.
I know what kind of
underwear he wears.
But this... I had no idea.
I'm so sorry, Suna...
I wish you weren't having
to go through this.
Suna! You on your way
to the hospital?
Uh... Mm...
Okay. I've decided to respect
your feelings about this.
So, you don't need to worry!
I'm gonna do what you asked!
(Gasp)
(Relieved sigh)
Thank you. That does make
me feel a little better.
Suna... don't worry.
It's going to be all right.
Don't worry.
I'm home!
Are you doing
okay today, Mom?!
I'm fine, just fine.
(Phone jingles)
Oh!
(Beeping)
(Grunting)
Suna, I...
I'm going to spend Ms. Yamato's
birthday with her!
And I'll do my best...
to make sure she has
a good time.
I promise.
♪Closing song♪
[SUNA]
Next episode:
My Friend and I.